CommunityGuidelines.md, before:

# Community Guidelines

## Community rules

- Please be respectful to other members. Avoid any racist, sexist, homophobic, excessively political, or otherwise distasteful discussions.
- While some cursing is appropriate in context, refrain from using excessive profanity.
- Keep conversations in the appropriate channel. Some off-topic discussions are to be expected, but try not to blatantly post non-subject-related content.
- No not safe for work (NSFW) material is allowed. Breaking this rule will be met with an immediate ban.
- Keep spam to a minimum:
  - Do not repeatedly send the same message.
  - Do not post links to sites/content others would find unacceptable.
- Advertising or promotion of piracy is forbidden.
- Staff members (`@Developer` on Discord) have the final say about what is and is not acceptable within the community. Refusals to listen to staff may result in being kicked or banned.
- HAVE FUN and enjoy all that the community has to offer.

To read our Code of Conduct please refer to [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
 
## Team rules

On top of the community rules, the development and moderation team has to keep themselves to a specific set of rules.

### Behavioural rules

- Keep cool to any community member, even if they can be very frustrating to deal with: Do not retaliate, say nothing if you cannot keep it polite.
- Stand up for one another and take responsibility for each others mistakes.
- Any team member can request a time-out in team chat, which will suspend any talking in team chat for 30 minutes.
  - Respect the time out, do not contact each other in DM during this period.
- We work with a 3 strike system, if you hit strike 3 you will lose your role.

### Rules regarding PRs

- Any contributor PR requires at least two code reviews, either by developers or trusted community members (at least one developer).
- Any developer PR requires at least one code review, by another developer.
- Any PR requires one playtest review, if applicable.

### Guidelines regarding public relations and community management

With an online presence we require maintaining a good public image. For this we have specific guidelines, so each party can take responsibility where necessary.

- Any message* for support or public relations requires a signature**.
- When sending emails, finish the letter with: Your regards, your name and the OpenRCT2 Team.
- Please keep a professional tone when communicating for support and public relations purposes.

*Discord messages are already signed.  
**For the identity associated with each signature refer to the paragraph "Team signatures"


#### Team Signatures

When finding a message on our social media the following signatures refer to the following members:

| Name | Signature |
| ---- | --------- |
| Ted (IntelOrca) | ~/i | 
| Duncan (duncanpumpkin) | ~/d |
| Michał (janisozaur) | ~/j |
| Hielke (Broxzier) | ~/b |
| Tulio (tupaschoal) | ~/t | 
| Olivier (Oli414) | ~/o |
| Matthias (ZehMatt) | ~/z |
| Karst (AuraSpecs)  | ~/a |
| Michael (mrmbernardi) | ~/m |
| Michael (Gymnasiast) | ~/g |

Commit message:

Add rule for self requested reviews

CommunityGuidelines.md, after:

# Community Guidelines

## Community rules

- Please be respectful to other members. Avoid any racist, sexist, homophobic, excessively political, or otherwise distasteful discussions.
- While some cursing is appropriate in context, refrain from using excessive profanity.
- Keep conversations in the appropriate channel. Some off-topic discussions are to be expected, but try not to blatantly post non-subject-related content.
- No not safe for work (NSFW) material is allowed. Breaking this rule will be met with an immediate ban.
- Keep spam to a minimum:
  - Do not repeatedly send the same message.
  - Do not post links to sites/content others would find unacceptable.
- Advertising or promotion of piracy is forbidden.
- Staff members (`@Developer` on Discord) have the final say about what is and is not acceptable within the community. Refusals to listen to staff may result in being kicked or banned.
- HAVE FUN and enjoy all that the community has to offer.

To read our Code of Conduct please refer to [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
 
## Team rules

On top of the community rules, the development and moderation team has to keep themselves to a specific set of rules.

### Behavioural rules

- Keep cool to any community member, even if they can be very frustrating to deal with: Do not retaliate, say nothing if you cannot keep it polite.
- Stand up for one another and take responsibility for each others mistakes.
- Any team member can request a time-out in team chat, which will suspend any talking in team chat for 30 minutes.
  - Respect the time out, do not contact each other in DM during this period.
- We work with a 3 strike system, if you hit strike 3 you will lose your role.

### Rules regarding PRs

- Any contributor PR requires at least two code reviews, either by developers or trusted community members (at least one developer).
- Any developer PR requires at least one code review, by another developer.
- Any PR requires one playtest review, if applicable.
- Any developer may self-request a review on a PR. This will expire 1 day after the PR gets another developer review.

### Guidelines regarding public relations and community management

With an online presence we require maintaining a good public image. For this we have specific guidelines, so each party can take responsibility where necessary.

- Any message* for support or public relations requires a signature**.
- When sending emails, finish the letter with: Your regards, your name and the OpenRCT2 Team.
- Please keep a professional tone when communicating for support and public relations purposes.

*Discord messages are already signed.  
**For the identity associated with each signature refer to the paragraph "Team signatures"


#### Team Signatures

When finding a message on our social media the following signatures refer to the following members:

| Name | Signature |
| ---- | --------- |
| Ted (IntelOrca) | ~/i | 
| Duncan (duncanpumpkin) | ~/d |
| Michał (janisozaur) | ~/j |
| Hielke (Broxzier) | ~/b |
| Tulio (tupaschoal) | ~/t | 
| Olivier (Oli414) | ~/o |
| Matthias (ZehMatt) | ~/z |
| Karst (AuraSpecs)  | ~/a |
| Michael (mrmbernardi) | ~/m |
| Michael (Gymnasiast) | ~/g |
