.Dd December 19, 2021
.Dt OPENRCT2 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm openrct2
.Nd An open source re-implementation of \(lqRollerCoaster Tycoon 2\(rq.
.sp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl v | -version
.Op Fl -verbose
.Nm
.Op uri
.Nm
.Ar edit
.Op uri
.Nm
.Ar intro
.sp
.Nm
.Ar host
uri
.Op Fl -address Ar address
.Op Fl -port Ar port
.Op Fl -password Ar password
.Op Fl -headless
.Nm
.Ar join
hostname
.Op Fl -port Ar port
.Op Fl -password Ar password
.sp
.Nm
.Ar set-rct2
path
.Nm
.Ar convert
source
destination
.Nm
.Ar scan-objects
path
.Nm
.Ar handle-uri
openrct2://.../
.sp
.Nm
.Ar screenshot
file output_image width height
.Op x y zoom rotation
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar screenshot
file output_image
.Ar giant
zoom rotation
.Op options
.sp
.Nm
.Ar sprite append
spritefile input
.Op x_offset y_offset
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar sprite build
spritefile json_path
.Op silent
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar sprite create
spritefile
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar sprite details
spritefile
.Op idx
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar sprite export
spritefile idx output
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar sprite exportall
spritefile output_directory
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar sprite exportalldat
dat_identifier output_directory
.Op options
.sp
.Nm
.Ar benchgfx
parkfile ticks
.Nm
.Ar benchspritesort
.Op file
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar benchsimulate
.Op file
.Op options
.Nm
.Ar simulate
parkfile ticks
.sp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
OpenRCT2 is an open-source re-implementation of RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 (RCT2).
The gameplay revolves around building and maintaining an amusement park
containing attractions, shops and facilities. The player must try to make a profit
and maintain a good park reputation whilst keeping the guests happy. OpenRCT2
allows for both scenario and sandbox play. Scenarios require the player to complete
a certain objective in a set time limit whilst sandbox allows the player to build a
more flexible park with optionally no restrictions or finance.
.sp
RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 was originally written by Chris Sawyer in x86 assembly and
is the sequel to RollerCoaster Tycoon. The engine was based on Transport Tycoon,
an older game which also has an equivalent open-source project, OpenTTD. OpenRCT2
attempts to provide everything from RCT2 as well as many improvements and
additional features, some of these include support for modern platforms, an improved
interface, improved guest and staff AI, more editing tools, increased limits, and
cooperative multiplayer. It also re-introduces mechanics from RollerCoaster Tycoon that
were not present in RollerCoaster Tycoon 2. Some of those include; mountain tool
in-game, the \(lqhave fun\(rq objective, launched coasters (not passing-through the
station) and several buttons on the toolbar.
.sp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-openrct2-data-path path "
.sp
.It Fl h | -help
Print a summary of all options to stdout and exit.
.sp
.It Fl v | -version
Show version information and exit.
.sp
.It Fl n | -no-install
Do not install scenario if passed.
.sp
.It Fl a | -all
Show help for all commands.
.sp
.It Fl -about
Show information about
.Nm .
.sp
.It Fl -verbose
Print diagnostic information to stdout.
.sp
.It Fl -headless
run
.Nm
without a graphical window.
.sp
.It Fl -port Ar port
Port to use for hosting or joining a server; if not specified, the default port of 11753 will be used.
.sp
.It Fl -address Ar address
Address to bind to when hosting a server.
.sp
.It Fl -password Ar password
Password needed to join the server.
.sp
.It Fl -user-data-path Ar path
Path to the user data directory (containing
.Pa config.ini )
.sp
.It Fl -openrct2-data-path Ar path
Path to the OpenRCT2 data directory (containing
.Pa languages )
.sp
.It Fl -rct1-data-path Ar path
Path to the RollerCoaster Tycoon 1 data directory (containing
.Pa data/csg1.dat )
.sp
.It Fl -rct2-data-path Ar path
Path to the RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 data directory (containing
.Pa data/g1.dat )
.El
.sp
Options specific to screenshots:
.Bl -tag -width "-fix-vandalism "
.sp
.It Fl -weather Ar 0-6
Weather to be used (0 = default, 1 = sunny, ..., 6 = thunder).
.sp
.It Fl -no-peeps
Hide peeps.
.sp
.It Fl -no-sprites
Hide all sprites (e.g. balloons, vehicles, guests).
.sp
.It Fl -clear-grass
Set all grass to be clear of weeds.
.sp
.It Fl -mowed-grass
Set all grass to be mowed.
.sp
.It Fl -water-plants
Water plants for the screenshot.
.sp
.It Fl -fix-vandalism
Fix vandalism for the screenshot.
.sp
.It Fl -remove-litter
Remove litter for the screenshot.
.sp
.It Fl -tidy-up-park
Clear grass, water plants, fix vandalism and remove litter.
.sp
.It Fl -transparent
Make the background transparent.
.El
.sp
Options specific to sprite commands:
.Bl -tag -width "m | --mode Ar mode "
.sp
.It Fl m | -mode Ar mode
The type of sprite conversion (default, closest, or dithering).
.El
.sp
Options specific to benchmark commands:
.Bl -tag -width "-benchmark_report_aggregates_only Ar {true|false} "
.sp
.It Fl -benchmark_list_tests Ar {true|false}
.It Fl -benchmark_filter Ar regex
.It Fl -benchmark_min_time Ar min_time
.It Fl -benchmark_repetitions Ar num_repetitions
.It Fl -benchmark_report_aggregates_only Ar {true|false}
.It Fl -benchmark_format Ar <console|json|csv>
.It Fl -benchmark_out Ar filename
.It Fl -benchmark_out_format Ar <json|console|csv>
.It Fl -benchmark_color Ar {auto|true|false}
.It Fl -benchmark_counters_tabular Ar {true|false}
.It Fl -v Ar verbosity
.El
.sp
.Sh FILES
On UNIX systems, OpenRCT2 stores user configuration, data, and cache in
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/OpenRCT2\fR, falling back to \fB~/.config/OpenRCT2\fR if
XDG_CONFIG_HOME is not set in the environment.
.sp
.Sh NOTES
Playing OpenRCT2 requires original files of RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 to play. It can be bought
at either Steam or GOG.com. If you have the original RollerCoaster Tycoon and its expansion
packs, you can point OpenRCT2 to these in order to play the original scenarios.
.sp
OpenRCT2 allows custom scripts (also known as plug-ins) to be written and executed in
the game providing additional behaviour on top of the vanilla experience. This can range
from extra windows providing information about the park to entire new multiplayer game
modes.
.sp
Version 0.4.0 of OpenRCT2 introduced a new park save format that allows for higher limits and
more features than the original RollerCoaster Tycoon 2. Old .SV4 and .SV6 files will continue to
work - forever. The only thing changed is that you can no longer save to .SV6, it will now be
saved as .park.
.sp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width "openrct2 https://example.org/files/ExamplePark.sv6 "
.It openrct2 ./my_park.sv6
Open a saved park.
.It openrct2 ./SnowyPark.sc6
Install and open a scenario.
.It openrct2 ./ShuttleLoop.td6
Install a track.
.It openrct2 https://example.org/files/ExamplePark.sv6
Download and open a saved park.
.It openrct2 host ./my_park.sv6 --port 11753 --headless
Run a headless server for a saved park.
.El
.sp
.Sh SEE ALSO
openrct2-cli(6)
.sp
.Lk https://openrct2.io "Official site"
.sp
.Lk https://github.com/OpenRCT2/OpenRCT2 "GitHub"
